Gerbil is a meta-dialect of Scheme, designed around a multiresolution
macro-system.

The macro system is based on quote-syntax, and provides full the
meta-syntactic tower with a native implementation of syntax-case, and
a powerful module system similar to plt scheme's (sorry, racket)
module system.  The main difference from plt's modules is that gerbil
modules are single instantiation, supporting high performance ahead of
time compilation.

Gerbil has been my private scheme for many years and it supports
multiple backends, but i have elected to base the primary version
of gerbil on gambit.
At the prompting of fare and mikael (they know who they are), who
had seen private code, i decided to release it in public with a clean
bootstrap version that bootstraps on gambit with a precompiled version
of the macro system and compiler.
That means that the macro system and gambit compiler is entirely
self-hosted.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
The source code is distributed under the Gambit license; that means
that Gerbil on Gambit is dual licensed under LGPLv2.1 and Apache 2.0.

Gerbil's primary author and maintainer is vyzo-at-hackzen.org, aka in
the Net as Dimitris Vyzovitis. The obligatory copyright notice, had I
bothered polluted everything with more than a (C) vyzo at hackzen.org,
would read like this:

(C) 2007-2016 Dimitris Vyzovitis <vyzo -at- hackzen.org>
Gerbil is Free Software, distributed under the GNU LGPLv2.1 or later
or the Apache 2.0 license.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
Dependencies: I have tested the bootstrap with Gambit v4.8.4.
The xml library in std requires libxml2 to build; comment it out xml
stuffs in src/std/build.ss if you don't have it.
Note that std is just an initial packaging of libraries that worked
with the gambit bootstrap out of the box, i have several other
libraries that i am still porting to Gerbil on Gambit from my various
private versions of Gerbil.

Build Instructions:
$ cd src
$ ./build.sh

wait for a while and watch the output (or don't, it gets boring after
a while :)

To run the interpreter after the build is done:
$ $GERBIL_HOME/bin/gxi

Refer to src/gerbil/core.ss for the core macros and the general
sources to get an idea of how it looks and how to get the most out of
it.  

This first release is intended to seasoned scheme hackers anyway,
and you can find your way around the source code (which should be
self-documenting, except for the really hairy parts).

There is no further documentation at this point, because I haven't
had the time to prepare some nice and coherent documentation that
can help scheme neophytes (or people who like neat documentation
before using a new scheme system; I hope to write some real
documentation in the not-so-distant future.

Patches (even for typos in the comments) are always welcome.
No copyright assignment ever, you keep what you contribute.
